---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

### Team Assessment and Plan!

#### Strengths & Weaknesses of Our Team


I formed a group with Zander, Dayo, Jacob and Nate. For our project, we decided to look at Brackets, a modern text editor that is known for being easy to design in the browser. It's crafted from the ground up for web designers and front-end developers. It was written in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript with a primary focus on web development. It was created by Adobe Systems, licensed under the MIT License, and is currently maintained on GitHub. We chose it because Jacob has used the product in the past and because the rest of our group was interested in learning more about it. Personally, I am interested in front end development and would love to gain more experience in Brackets. I generally really like Adobe products, I think they’re easy to use and often design oriented, so it will be interesting to see if Brackets is the same (and also an upgrade from Dreamweaver). For our presentation, we researched Brackets to gain a sense of how the project is maintained and how we could contribute. 

I was tasked with determining the project’s health. So one of the first things I looked as was activity and participation - were people actively engaging in this community and if so was it a diverse group of contributors with varying abilities. I found that people were very active on the GitHub - here you can see there are issues being raised as early as two days ago. However, the discussion that each issue raises varies, which suggests that perhaps response time isn’t that fast. There are 354 contributors which suggests a fairly small community and those who contribute the most are Adobe employees which might suggest that a high technical ability or comfortability with Brackets is required. 

We’re still unsure how or what we will contribute to this project. However, we’re very excited to work on Brackets.
