---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---
## humanitarian open source 

The definition of the word **humanitarian** (adj) is "relating to or characteristic of people who work to improve the lives and living conditions of other people".
The Open Source project that I am currently working on is a text editor and while I think it makes Adobe products more accessible to the general population,and does in general aim to help people, 
I would not categorize it as humanitarian.  

However, since starting this class, and especially following the NYU BUGs Open Source event I have become more interested in humanitarian open source projects. One such project 
is OpenStreetMap which one of the pannelists mentioned. Their aim is to support and enable the development of freely-reusable geospatial data. Although not humanitarian on its face, the sofware aims to overcome restrictions on use or availability of map information across much of the world.
I personally think this is an admirable mission and I plan on making contributions to this. 

----
Our group has continued to make progress on Brackets. We are currently reading through the documentation, to try and determine a good palce to start. We created a Trello board in which we have outlined our general plans to find and document manageable issues. We know hope to choose a beginner issue to start with. 

----

This week I made two contributions to Wikipedia:
1. On [Rose Thomas' page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rose_Thomas_(blogger)) (an English blogger) I added a citation to a Daily Mail article referenced. 

2. I changed the population on the [Holme-on-Spalding-Moor's page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holme-on-Spalding-Moor) from the 2011 figure to the 2016. 

I also made a contribution to the OpenStreetMap project:
1. I added [Croque Monsieur Bootham-Bar](https://www.openstreetmap.org/changeset/57552867), a small cafe, to the map of York. 
