## Blog Post 2/4 
# The Cathedral and the Bazaar

1. To Eric Steven Raymond, the cathedral and the bazaar represent two different methods of developing software. The cathedral represents the traditional route - development is left in the hands of an elite group of highly skilled engineers who guard the code. 
By comparison, the bazaar style  uses the “differing agendas and approaches” of a wide array of contributors to build their project. While the bazaar method invites more collaboration and community, the cathedral allows companies to retain their proprietary rights. I have always used “closed source”  products and so I feel more comfortable using  their software. However,I look forward to using more open source software after this class. 

2. The first lesson I found interesting was “ Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite (and reuse)”. I really liked the idea that successful programmers use “constructive laziness”. Raymond writes that “it’s always easier to start from a good partial solution than from nothing at all”, by which he means that if possible, allow yourself to be helped by the work of others. 
The second lesson was that “If you treat your beta-testers as if they're your most valuable resource, they will respond by becoming your most valuable resource”. In this chapter, Raymond describes why the open source model “accelerates debugging and code evolution”.  In closed-source development the tester and the developer are in two mental models; “the tester, on the outside looking in, and the developer on the inside looking out” - which creates a divide and an inability for the two to conciliate. In open source, there is no such divide. Instead, the developer and the tester “develop a shared representation grounded in the actual source code and to communicate effectively about it”. 
