--- 
layout: post 
title: Week 10
---

## Open Data Week, Part 2 

This week I attended an Open Data talk that had been pushed back from Open Data Week due to the snow storm. It was a series of short talks on the use of data followed by a panel. While the focus was not on open source it was nevertheless interesting. All speakers talked about how they were utilizing and optimizing data to better understand their customers and the solutions they could offer them. This was often from a commerical perspective - how could they use customers' data to improve their services so they could sell better products. As the first speaker, Mrylene, said "Great advertising is about finding ther brand's truth". This ended up being the theme of the night, for example, a director at [dotdash.com] (https://www.dotdash.com/), formerly About.com, talked about customer response had resulted in a complete branding overhaul. She showed us data that highlighted how the company tracked peoples' searches. It was interesting to see how around certain times of the year specific searches spiked - for example flu was a popular search in the winter. 


## Danna Kelmer's Talk
I really enjoyed Danna’s talk. It was an interesting insight into Google’s approach to open source. It’s not a name I would immediately associate with open source and I was  pleasantly surprised by the amount of projects they currently work on and the number of people dedicated full-time to them. It was interesting to see what was kept open and closed, and that unsurprisingly, the “money-makers” were closed. However, I was surprised to learn that Bazel, the team that Danna works on, is so integral to Google and is completely open source. To have software that all Googlers use be open to the public is really cool and I think Danna did such a great job of explaining its functionality. 

## Progress this week

Our team made a lot of progress this week. We finally settled on a project that we think we can all collaborate on. Having reviewed current bugs and issues in Brackets we realized that most were too technical or high-level for our ability. Instead, we decided to build a plugin. Jacob had the idea to combine the functions of two different plugins into a more compact and robust application. We plan to build a plugin that allows users to test out different colors and also suggests complementary colors that might align with the present choice. So, if a user were to select an element they would be able to change the color via this plugin and then test it out on the site. We divided the work between the five of us; Jacob and Nate will work on building the plugin’s framework, Zander will design the color picker and Dayo will build it. I plan on building the complimentary color suggestion aspect of it.  We’re very excited to get started! 
