---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

### NYC Open Data Week @ NYU
I attended [this talk](https://bugs-nyu.github.io/open-data/open_data_week.html) at NYU on Monday night. 
I had never considered the link between civic engagement and open data. Yet, this panel was eye-opening as to the possibilities of how open data can benefit society. Dominic Mauro spoke extensively about his experience as first an advocate taking advantage of the Freedom of Information Law (FOIL) and then as a lawyer working in the government. He spoke about the history of opening up government data, from its beginnings under the Obama administration, who formed Open Gov and then NYC’s publication of data.  All three panelists agreed that this was progress, as one declared “we love transparency and openness.” When asked what the world would look like without  Open Data, all agreed that we would be stuck in a loop of redundant research. It was interesting to hear Vicky Steeves talk about this from an academic perspective, since she was able to speak about how vital this data is to her research, and therefore her field and academia in general. She explained that without open data, research would grind to a halt and would be repeated since Steeves wouldn’t be able to access their data. Indeed, all panelists were incredibly aware of how they defined their purpose, and their goals for open data. As Dinorah Cantu-Pedraza noted, we have to ask “why is this useful and how to generate impact”.  

Yet, despite all being incredibly pro open data, they acknowledged the “evils” and associated risks. For example, Cantu- Pedraza highlighted how NYC’s Open Data Project had been to religiously profile taxi drivers. This led to a wider discussion about privacy and how we need to safeguard our practices. 


### Talk Data to Me
I was planning on attending [this talk](https://generalassemb.ly/education/talk-data-to-me-featuring-directade/new-york-city/45894) at General Assembly  on Wednesday, but due to the storm it was postponed, it'll now be held on April 5th.


I now have **14** total contributions.
