
---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

 
Prior to this class, I had thought of open source as software freely available. It was accessible and modifiable,  shared and guarded by a community of contributors. After our first class, I learnt that this was broadly true, but not always in its specifics. Open source can be commidifiable and indeed, profitable to companies that choose this as their business model. Furthermore, open software is not always open source – as Professor Klukowska pointed out, GitHub does not always equal open source. As opensource.com details, “Open source licenses affect the way people can use, study, modify, and distribute software. In general, open source licenses grant computer users permission to use open source software for any purpose they wish”. 
One of the greatest advantages of such an approach is that it builds a community around a project, not only are there more engineers to build the project, but to improve, fix and debug. This naturally improves the software and allows people to personalize it to their needs.  

**WordPress** – During one of my internships, my boss asked me to build the company blogsite using WordPress. I had little experience with PHP, but found a wealth of documentation online which allowed me to build a basic site. Other alternatives include Joomla, Drupal, Jekyll, Tumblr. 

**Firefox** – I’ve used it to test websites on, to see whether they are rendered as expected. It also loads websites far faster than others due to its lower memory requirements. Alternatives include Chrome, IE, Safari 

**Eclipse** – This was used in all my introductory Computer Science classes where Eclipse was recommended for Java. Alternatives include NetBeans, IntelliJ and BlueJ.

**LaTex** – I’ve used this in math classes where we were required to format our responses. It was simple to use and designed to place our answers in identical layouts. Alternatives include: LibreOffice,  LyX

## Questions:
-	At what point do you decide if the software is ready to be released?
-	What are the main legal issues you have to deal with? 

