---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

### what type of things are you looking for when you select an open source  project to work on?
I’d really like to choose an open source project that aligns with my interests within the field of Computer Science. I’m more drawn towards the front end and design-oriented software, a few of which I detailed in my last blog post. During last class, I was in a group that discussed Brackets. I really enjoyed this, since not only did I get to explore the workings of an open source project bit discover a new editor that I’d like to continue using. Therefore, I would like to work on a project that I feel will benefit my learning and help me better understand the software I’m using. 

### what are you able to offer to the team that you will be working on for the project? (what are your strengths)
I’m not entirely sure what I can offer my team. I’m hard working and will strive to understand and explore the project to learn what I can contribute.

### what are you hoping to learn from working on an open source project?
I hope to learn more about how open source projects are sustained and how they progress. It’ll be interesting to try and become a part of the community. I’m hoping to learn how to contribute, or at least how to learn from those who do contribute. 

### what are you most worried about when you are thinking about and planning  to work on an open source project? 
I’m worried about being out of my depth. I have never contributed to an open source project before and I’m worried that it will be difficult to find a beginner’s issue to start with. 

### propose questions for Aurelia 
I’m curious how you work remotely? Do you still feel part of the open source community when you work on the corporate side of it?
